
CHURN MANAGEMENT

The objective of the project is to develop a model for predicting churns at a fictius telecom company.

Data for the case are available in csv format. The data are a scaled down version of the full database
generously donated by an anonymous wireless telephone company. There are still 71,047 customers
in the database, and 75 potential predictors. 

The data are available in one data file with 71,047 rows that combines the calibration and validation
customers. “calibration” database consisting of 40,000 customers and a “validation” database
consisting of 31,047 customers. Each database contained (1) a “churn” variable signifying whether
the customer had left the company two months after observation, and (2) a set of 75 potential
predictor variables that could be used in a predictive churn model. Following usual model
development procedures, the model would be estimated on the calibration data and tested on the
validation data. At the time, churn rate was about 2% per month. However, data set has
been created the calibration database so that it contained roughly 50% churners. The validation data
contained 2% churners.

project2.R is the code written in R language.

Proactive Attrition Management-Logistic Regression Case Study.csv is the dataset in csv format and 
contains 71,047 observations and 75 variables.

descriptive_analysis.xlsx gives the descriptive analysis of each variable in the dataset that includes
 their type, count, number of missing values, values of each variable at 1, 5, 10, 25, 50, 75, 90, 95 
percentile along with minimum and maximum values, and giving outliers.

EigenValues.xlsx gives the eigen values for the numerical variables in the data to find the number of 
factors.

factor_analysis_loadingstable.xlsx gives the loadings table for variable reduction.

result_decileordering_development_sample.xlsx and result_decileordering_validation_sample.xlsx gives 
rank ordering table for validation of the model.

KS_GainChart_LiftChart_validation.xlsx gives KS statistics to validate our model. It also shows gain 
chart, bar chart and lift chart for our model.

